{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15440\viewh12720\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Associate Editor\
Comments to Author:\
This paper examines the link between the\'a0gender\'a0mix of clinical teams and outcomes for obstetric patients. \'a0The authors suggest that this context is particularly well suited for studying the potential causal effect of\'a0gender\'a0dynamics on team performance. I have shared the paper with two expert reviewers and have done a detailed read myself. \'a0Both reviewers see many strengths in the work including a compelling set of research questions about\'a0gender\'a0mix and team performance, unique data, and thorough empirical analysis. \'a0Alas, both reviewers also express concerns with aspects of the paper\'92s design and execution. \'a0My own assessment of the paper matches up closely with the strengths and concerns identified in these excellent reviews.\
Given the high quality of the reviews, I have relatively little additional guidance to provide the authors beyond responding to the specific points raised in the reports. \'a0That said, I highlight below several key items that emerged from their reviews and my own read of the paper.\
\
1. Need for more detail about how team members actually interact: As the authors note on p. 7 of the manuscript (p. 9 of the full PDF), 77% of the deliveries in their sample have only one OB-GYN involved (i.e., are solo procedures). Thus, the occurrence of a team-based delivery is relatively rare. \'a0The rarity of team-based deliveries raises the question of why we would ever see the formation of OB-GYN teams in practice. \'a0The authors provide a helpful discussion of this topic on pp. 8-9 of the manuscript, where they offer two categories of explanations for team formation, which R1 refer to as: (1) clinical complexity/emergencies or (2) operational constraints (e.g., handoffs due to competing procedures or call coverage for a patient\'92s primary OB). \'a0As R1 suggests, the inability of the authors\'92 data to tease apart these two explanations for team formation limits their ability to distinguish between stories of team performance that assume the two team members are synchronously interacting (akin to a sports team) versus a sequential interaction between one team member who hands off to another (akin to a shift change). \'a0In my view, there could even be a third possibility that may or may not exist in the data: that two OBs are recorded in the data for a given procedure\'97the lead being the OB on call who performs the procedure and the assistant being the patient\'92s primary OB\'97but that the work is entirely completed by the lead OB on call with no consultation with the patient\'92s primary OB. \'a0In essence, this would be a solo delivery that, due either to recordkeeping conventions or recordkeeping errors, gets characterized as a team delivery. \'a0In short, it is not clear if what the authors are observing in their \'93teams\'94 are traditional synchronous teams, handoffs, or recordkeeping anomalies. \'a0This distinction, however, is important for the reader\'92s understanding of the potential mechanisms driving the observed outcomes.\
\
2. Potential for reverse causality: \'a0Particularly in the absence of information about how and when in the care delivery process an OB team is formed, the concern about reverse causality (i.e., that maternal complications might play a role in determining a team\'92s\'a0gender\'a0mix) raised by R2 merits further consideration by the authors. \'a0\
\
3. Explanation for differences in same-gender\'a0teams: In discussing the reverse causality point, R2 observes that the paper does not clearly explain why teams with two male members consistently perform worse than the other types of teams. \'a0R1\'92s section on \'93homogeneous teams\'94 offers a similar summary point, noting: \'93\'85I found the extension of a norms-based explanation to differences between all-male and all-female teams more speculative\'85\'94\
\
4. Lack of significance in differences between mixed-gender\'a0(i.e., M-F vs. F-M) teams: Like both R1 and R2, I am concerned by the interpretation of the results on mixed-gender\'a0teams as suggesting \'93\'85female-led mixed-gender\'a0teams perform worse than male-led ones\'94 (abstract). The results in Figure II(a) seem to provide no evidence of a statistically significant difference in the performance of these two types of mixed-gender\'a0teams. I don\'92t see evidence that the authors tested for the significance of this difference and confidence intervals for these two estimates seems to overlap substantially. \'a0Like R2, I acknowledge that Figure II(c) seems to suggest that this difference is significant, yet this is presumably in a more limited sample (I could not find the results table for regression A.4 in the paper).\
\
5. Specification of main regression: I agree with R2\'92s observation about adjusting the specification of Equation (1) on p. 10 of the manuscript. \'a0It seems that the simpler specification would include the indicator for female lead (lead_fem), an indicator for a female assisting (assist_fem), and the interaction of lead_fem and assist_fem.\
\
6. Concerns about selection in the solo-birth sample: R1 raises a compelling concern about the potential for selection in the solo-birth sample to contaminate the physician fixed effects that are used in the discussion of the mechanisms. At a minimum, this merits consideration by the authors.\
\
7. Interpretation of results and strengths of claims about mechanisms: While both R1 and R2 feel that the authors have identified interesting differences in performance based on\'a0gender\'a0mix, they also raise concerns about the strength of the authors\'92 claims regarding the\'a0gender-norm mechanisms. \'a0I will add that the authors need to be wary of using speculative language (e.g. note the repeated use of \'93possibly\'94 and the separate use \'93likely\'94 in the abstract\'92s discussion of the findings). \'a0R1 spends a fair bit of time suggesting how the authors might improve the study in this regard.\
\
I appreciate having had the opportunity to oversee the review process for this paper and wish the authors the best as they push this work forward.}